As of GMT 5.0.0, GMT is distributed under the GNU Lesser General Public
License (LGPL) version 3 or later. Copies of the The GNU General Public
License (GPL) and the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL) are
distributed along with the sources. Refer to the files COPYINGv3 and
COPYING.LESSERv3.

NOTE: Some of the source files in src/ have different licenses.  For
instance Shewchuk's Delaunay Triangulator (triangle.c) is distributed
under a proprietary non-permissive license. Refer to the license in
every source file. Users who wish to enforce strict GPL or LGPL
conformance are advised to exclude copylefted sources in
cmake/ConfigUser.cmake.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute (with no more than a
reasonable redistribution fee) this software and its documentation for
any purpose is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice
appear in all copies, that both that copyright notice and this
permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name
of GMT not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission.  The GMT package may be included in a bundled distribution
of software for which a fee may be charged. The University of Hawaii
(UH) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
make no representations about the suitability of this software for any
purpose.  It is provided "as is" without expressed or implied warranty.
It is provided with no support and without obligation on the part of UH
or NOAA, to assist in its use, correction, modification, or
enhancement.
