@c This is part of the libcf documentation. See COPYRIGHT file
@c for terms of use.

@c This file is included by the texi file, and contains
@c common definitions.

@c $Id$

@set libcf-man The NetCDF CF Library Users Guide and Reference

@set libcf-support-email support-libcf@@unidata.ucar.edu

@c URLs for CF stuff.
@set cf-url http://www.cgd.ucar.edu/cms/eaton/cf-metadata/CF-1.0.html

@c home pages for netcdf, netcdf-4, netcdf java, hdf5, Unidata
@set hdf5-url http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5
@set unidata-url http://www.unidata.ucar.edu
@set netcdf-url @value{unidata-url}/software/netcdf
@set netcdf-4-url @value{netcdf-url}/netcdf-4
@set netcdf-java-url @value{unidata-url}/software/netcdf-java
@set ucar-url http://www.ucar.edu
@set udunits-url http://www.unidata.ucar.edu/software/udunits/

@c urls for netcdf documents
@set docs-url @value{netcdf-url}/docs

@c urls to search on-line stuff
@set libcf-support-search-url @value{unidata-url}/mailsearchform.php?archive=libcf&archivename=LibCF
@set libcf-list-search-url @value{unidata-url}/mailsearchform.php?archive=libcfgroup-list&archivename=LibCF_Group

@c places to get downloads
@set ftp-site ftp://ftp.unidata.ucar.edu/pub/libcf

@setchapternewpage odd
@finalout
@copying 
Copyright @copyright{} 2006 University Corporation for
Atmospheric Research

@sp 2
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided that the copyright notice and these paragraphs are
preserved on all copies.  The software and any accompanying written 
materials are provided ``as is'' without warranty of any kind.  UCAR 
expressly disclaims all warranties of any kind, either expressed or 
implied, including but not limited to the implied warranties of 
merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose.  

The Unidata Program Center is managed by the University 
Corporation for Atmospheric Research and sponsored by the National 
Science Foundation.  Any opinions, findings, conclusions, or 
recommendations expressed in this publication are those of the 
author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National 
Science Foundation.

Mention of any commercial company or product in this document 
does not constitute an endorsement by the Unidata Program Center.  
Unidata does not authorize any use of information from this 
publication for advertising or publicity purposes.
@end copying
